# Realtime Syslog Analytics

This bundle is a 9 node cluster designed to scale out. Built around Apache
Hadoop components, it contains the following units:

* 1 HDFS Master
  - 1 Rsyslog Forwarder (colocated on the HDFS Master)
* 1 HDFS Secondary Namenode
* 1 YARN Master
* 3 Compute Slaves
* 1 Flume-HDFS
  - 1 Plugin (colocated on the Flume unit)
* 1 Flume-Syslog
* 1 Spark
 - 1 Plugin (colocated on the Spark unit)
 - 1 Zeppelin (colocated on the Spark unit)

Syslog events generated on the HDFS Master unit are forwarded to the
`apache-flume-syslog` charm. These events are serialized and sent to the
`apache-flume-hdfs` charm to be stored in HDFS. We have included a sample
application to analyze these events with Spark/Zeppelin.


## Usage
Deploy this bundle using juju-quickstart:

    juju quickstart u/bigdata-dev/realtime-syslog-analytics

See `juju quickstart --help` for deployment options, including machine 
constraints and how to deploy a locally modified version of the
`realtime-syslog-analytics` bundle.yaml.


## Testing the deployment

### Smoke test HDFS admin functionality
Once the deployment is complete and the cluster is running, ssh to the HDFS
Master unit:

    juju ssh hdfs-master/0

As the `ubuntu` user, create a temporary directory on the Hadoop file system.
The steps below verify HDFS functionality:

    hdfs dfs -mkdir -p /tmp/hdfs-test
    hdfs dfs -chmod -R 777 /tmp/hdfs-test
    hdfs dfs -ls /tmp # verify the newly created hdfs-test subdirectory exists
    hdfs dfs -rm -R /tmp/hdfs-test
    hdfs dfs -ls /tmp # verify the hdfs-test subdirectory has been removed
    exit

### Smoke test YARN and MapReduce
Run the `terasort.sh` script from the Flume unit to generate and sort data. The
steps below verify that Flume is communicating with the cluster via the plugin
and that YARN and MapReduce are working as expected:

    juju ssh flume-hdfs/0
    ~/terasort.sh
    exit

### Smoke test HDFS functionality from user space
From the Flume unit, delete the MapReduce output previously generated by the
`terasort.sh` script:

    juju ssh flume-hdfs/0
    hdfs dfs -rm -R /user/ubuntu/tera_demo_out
    exit

### Smoke test Flume
SSH to the Flume unit and verify the flume-ng java process is running:

    juju ssh flume-hdfs/0
    ps -ef | grep flume-ng # verify process is running
    exit


## Scale Out Usage
This bundle was designed to scale out. To increase the amount of Compute
Slaves, you can add units to the compute-slave service. To add one unit:

    juju add-unit compute-slave

You can also add multiple units, for examle, to add four more compute slaves:

    juju add-unit -n4 compute-slave


## Contact Information

- <bigdata-dev@lists.launchpad.net>


## Help

- [Juju mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/juju)
- [Juju community](https://jujucharms.com/community)
